CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributor Guide

## Code Coverage Checks (local)

Make sure any pull requests have adequate unit test code coverage.  You can check this without waiting for travis and codecov.io to do their thing by doing this:

```bash
> sbt coverage test
```

And then open up the file `target/scala-2.11/scoverage-report/index.html` in your browser.

## Updating Documentation and Website

Tutorials should be added to the `src/tutsrc` directory.  Code blocks should typically use `\`\`\`tuts` instead of `\`\`\`scala` to add code.  This will ensure the code blocks are checked by the compiler and the output shown inline.  See [tpolecat/tut](https://github.com/tpolecat/tut) for details.

To update the site, do this:

```bash
> sbt tut make-site
> sbt ghpages-push-site
```

You can also do `sbt previewSite` to check things out locally, but you'll need to update the `src/jekyll/_config.yml` file to change the `baseurl` config to `""`.  Just don't check that in and push or you'll break the live site.  If you want to set up some kind of conditional to make this better, that would be great.

Commit message:

Added jekyll setup instructions. Fixes #12.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributor Guide

## Code Coverage Checks (local)

Make sure any pull requests have adequate unit test code coverage.  You can check this without waiting for travis and codecov.io to do their thing by doing this:

```bash
> sbt coverage test
```

And then open up the file `target/scala-2.11/scoverage-report/index.html` in your browser.

## Updating Documentation and Website

Tutorials should be added to the `src/tutsrc` directory.  Code blocks should typically use \`\`\`tuts instead of \`\`\`scala to add code.  This will ensure the code blocks are checked by the compiler and the output shown inline.  See [tpolecat/tut](https://github.com/tpolecat/tut) for details.

Updating the site requires you to install [jekyll first](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/#installing-jekyll).  In short, here's what you need to do for initial setup:

1. Make sure you have ruby 2.0 or greater installed
2. Run `gem install bundler`
3. Run `gem install github-pages`

Once you're setup, to update the site, do this:

```bash
> sbt tut make-site
> sbt ghpages-push-site
```

You can also do `sbt previewSite` to check things out locally, but you'll need to update the `src/jekyll/_config.yml` file to change the `baseurl` config to `""`.  Just don't check that in and push or you'll break the live site.  If you want to set up some kind of conditional to make this better, that would be great.
